Whether your company wants to implement
a new sales technique
or plans a complete business overhaul,
chances are the organization will benefit
from a change management plan.
But did you know there are types of change
that share similarities and significant differences?
Understanding these organizational change scopes
and their impact can help your team navigate them
to better achieve your goals.
Let's explore three types of organizational change
that you may experience.
The first type is developmental change.
It typically builds on
or improves current organizational practices or offerings.
Developmental change is the least disruptive change type.
Developmental change is rooted in skill
and process building.
For example, a company might update software
or a product to a newer version,
add additional staff to an existing role,
or adapt their marketing strategy.
Next up is transitional change.
It's more significant in scope
and usually involves a detailed plan to achieve goals.
The third and final type is transformational change.
Of the three change types, this is the most turbulent.
Hallmarks include a strong core visionary goal,
but the path to achieving the change is more ambiguous
and may require trial and error.
So while transitional change is large in scope,
think mergers and acquisitions,
replacing one technology with a new one,
or adding a completely new product.
The path is laid out and structured.
Transformational change is also large scope, but iterative.
It can require an entirely new cultural
or behavioral standard
and therefore it's often fraught with emotion and stress.
For example, imagine pivoting
to a totally new operational model, business model
or company identity.
The scope and impact of these organizational change types
may differ, but these tips will help your team
make it through.
First, begin with an end in mind.
Establish a goal or vision and ensure everyone understands
where you're headed.
The map may look different
depending on the scope and style and that's okay.
Second, don't ignore emotions.
Even small changes can give rise to resistance.
Acknowledge and empathize with your team's experience
and you're more likely to keep them engaged.
Finally, increase buy-in by communicating the reasons
for the change
and getting team members involved as early as possible.
Understanding and believing in the change
helps with motivation and stamina,
especially when the path is long or unclear.
Organizational change depends on understanding the endeavor
and adapting leadership accordingly.
No matter the scope, a clear vision, communication process
and empathy will bring the team together to achieve goals,
especially when they believe
it's in everyone's best interest.
Try these tips to help your team
navigate the process more effectively and achieve success.